For much of the planet, the "ethnic cleansing" occurring in Darfur proved to be a media darling for yellow journalism, in spite of the fact that many were ignorant to what was happening in the region. Though the mass media would not get to sensationalize this story until 2004, the conflict had been raging on for 3 to 4 years before that to much of humanity's obliviousness. Though the clash officially began sometime in 1999, the ethnic tension has existed in Darfur since colonialism under the European powers. After much negligence under the British colonial rule of the early 20th century, the province had to endure even more neglect under the newly independent, self-governing Sudanese regime. A group of people who were faced with a similar situation (of disregard), the largely Christian South suddenly decided to revolt. While a peace treaty was being brokered in the capital, Khartoum, the Islamic Darfuris chose to revolt, certain that they would be, yet again, subject to neglect under the new provisions. The Sudanese government, faced with a defense force that was unwilling to go and shoot their own Darfuri relatives, chose a malicious strategy: they told the Darfuri Arabs of the region that the slaves were going to rebel, and as a result, the dreaded Janjaweed (militiamen) began slaughtering the entire area, butchering and raping villages everywhere. Many members of the international community, including the European Union and the United States expressed considerable outrage, yet displayed "a complete lack of resolve and coordination" in trying to fix the situation. Some nations, like Germany and the Netherlands, gave substantial financial support (and erupted into ineffectual noise), but little actual assistance. Nearly all talk of pursuing peace in the region, turned out to be no more than just that: talk. Since little could be agreed upon concerning what course of action to take, it became popular to "refer" the matter to the U.N., who was essentially given the responsibility of taking action without the political means to do so. As a result, the situation was thrust onto the shoulders of the already shaky and unstable African Union, who did little but quarrel about how the aid money could be spent. It seemed clear now that private and charitable organizations would have to spearhead the effort to help the Darfuris through their bloodbath. Even this plan had its limitations because of the shortage of funds available to assist the local communities. Although most would readily concur that the massacring of thousands upon thousands of an innocent people is wrong, nay, unacceptable, few, including most of the industrialized world, have ever taken any useful course of action to help remedy the crisis, let alone even acknowledge that what is occurring right now in the region can, indeed, be considered genocide. As the author argues, "It is a measure of the cynicism of our times that we appear to think the killing of 250,000 people in a genocide more deserving of our attention than that of 250,000 people in nongenocidal measures" (Prunier 19), how can the level of commitment we give to this situation and these poor, unfortunate people rely purely on the accuracy of the media label, genocide? The author asserts that, in order to effectively provide a long-term solution to the crisis that can offer any hope for these people, as opposed to an unsteady and faulty peace agreement, we need to actually take action. Much like the author, I agree without a doubt, that if the ethnic conflict occurring in Darfur continues to worsen, with the rest of humanity indifferently going about its business, the world will have another Holocaust or Rwanda on its hands.