Because of Hamlet's madness, there are the reactions of others. After Polonius is informed by his daughter, Ophelia, of Hamlet's madness, Polonius immediately goes to King Claudius and tells him he has the reason for Hamlet's madness. Gertrude responds, "I doubt it no other but the main,/ His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage" (56-57). As Hamlet's mother, Hamlet's father's wife, and Hamlet's father's brother's wife, Gertrude only sees the reasons for Hamlet's madness are his father's death and her quick marriage to his father's brother. However, Polonius believes differently. He tells Claudius how Ophelia obeyed his advice to "lock herself from his resort,/ Admit no messengers, receive no tokens...into the madness wherein now [Hamlet] raves" (2.2, 142-149). Polonius believes Hamlet's disappointed love for Ophelia has caused his madness. The point of views of the Gertrude and Polonius are limited to their relationship they share with Hamlet but no knowledge of Hamlet's true intentions. Gertrude bases her reason on Hamlet's experience over his father's death and her fault in her quick marriage with her son's uncle, and Polonius bases his reason on his knowledge of and interference in the relationship between his daughter and Hamlet. At first, Hamlet's madness is viewed as harmless and is thought to have been caused by no other than the problems that are present. However, when Hamlet murders Polonius, Hamlet's madness is interpreted differently. When Gertrude informs Claudius of this, Claudius states, "This mad young man. But so much was our love/ We would not understand what was most fit,/ But, like the owner of a foul disease" (4.1, 19-21). Hamlet's madness is compared to a "foul disease." His madness is no longer dismissed as a common problem of grief over his father's death, resentment in his mother's marriage, or disappointed love. Claudius, like others during the Renaissance, "would not understand" Hamlet's madness and distance himself from it with the assumption that the "disease" is dangerous.