The gallery talk "From Ancient China to Central Europe: East - West interaction in Ceramics" was held at the Great Hall in Metropolitan Museum of Art on November 11, 2007. The speaker was Linda Rosenfeld Pomper, and she presented the gallery talk in front of the artworks. The primary focus of the gallery talk was the interaction of porcelain from Ancient China to Central Europe. During the gallery talk, Pomper not only introduced the invention and development of porcelain, but also informed the spread and influence between China, rest of Asia, and Europe.

The Chinese made the first true porcelain during the Tang Dynasty (618-907), also known as the oriental porcelain. Porcelain is made from a mixture of two ingredients - kaolin and petuntse, and then mixed these two ingredients with water to form a soft material, so the material could change to several shapes. After the shape was formed, fire it with extremely high temperature, and then put glaze on the surface, and fire it again. In Ancient China, porcelain was used for bowls, dishes, jars, and even statues. As the techniques to make porcelain became more mature, Chinese began to have paintings on the porcelain. These paintings were very colorful, and many of the designs were human, animals and the symbols of longevity and luckiness. Moreover, Chinese were able to mass produce porcelain, and porcelain became so common in the society

Due to the Silk Road and sea trade, more and more people start to know porcelain. Because Chinese porcelain is so beautiful and useful, it was extremely popular in other region especially Europe, so many trader traveled long way to China just for seek of porcelain. Kraak was a kind of porcelain only made for trade. The color of Kraak was blue and white, and it usually had stylized flower decorations on it. During the trade, Portuguese bought porcelain into Europe and Japan, and Japanese developed more designs, shape and color porcelain.

European not only traded with China and Japan for porcelain, they started to create their own porcelain. However, Chinese porcelain was created like a magic, so European experienced very long time and finally created their own porcelain around 17th centuries by Medici workshop. However, European could not mass produce porcelain, so it became very valuable and expensive which usually belonged to wealth and royalty. After the method to produce porcelain was found, European started to make many copies from Chinese and Japanese porcelain, and gave the European a way to learn Chinese and Japanese everyday life through images on the pottery. Moreover, porcelain made intense interaction among China, Japan, and European countries.

European not only made copies from others, but also created their own style of porcelain. Before, the porcelain imported into Europe only had decoration of white and blue flowers. After the method was discovered, European put colorful designs, religious images and symbols, and even scenes of tales on the porcelain. For example, "the Nativity" depicted a scene of Jesus born. On the porcelain, it not only shows Mary and Gods are lifelike, but also shows the various of colors used, such as clothing in blue, tree in brown, mountain in green and sun in yellow.

As a result, Pomper effectively introduced the detail about invention and development of porcelain. She also informed how porcelain diffused into other regions and influenced by other countries. Pomper also shown various of examples to support how Chinese porcelain differ than Japanese and European in color, shape and content. After the lecture, I not only learned more information and history about porcelain, but also realized the importance of interaction between different regions.