Global warming is the gradual increase in Earth's temperature. The contributing factors that cause the greenhouse effect is carbon dioxide, water vapors, methane, and Nitrous Oxide. Over the past few hundred of years, greenhouse gases are steadily climbing and no indication of slowing or leveling out. With this increase of greenhouse gases, the increase in temperature is resulting in the sea levels rising as much as 10 centimeters by 2025. The result could prove disastrous with land reductions. Global warming can cause changes in weather conditions and events such as El Nino.

The increase in temperature can cause heat-related deaths in the summer. The 2003 European heat wave of 2003 killed over 22,000 people. The 2006 United States heat wave killed 139 Californians where they had 6 consecutive days of over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Temperature also play an important role in diseases. The rise in temperature is expected to widen the zones of certain diseases such as malaria. In turn, third world nations with little medical care could see the rise of this disease while first world nations which the diseases eliminated could see the return of them. The sea level rise is mainly contributed with the polar ice caps where the largest of ice is located. With this massive ice caps melting, below sea level areas could be flooded and result in a new sea bottom.

The number one contributor being water vapor which is natural occurring. Scientists and researchers must focus to the second largest contributor which is carbon dioxide, CO2. With 19.2% of carbon dioxide attributed to transportation fuels, 20.6% to industrial processes, and 29.5% to power stations. It is painfully obvious that something needs to be done in this area. The 2005 Kyoto Protocol requires developing nations to reduce their greenhouse gas emission. The international community finally realize that global warming is a threat to all countries. The United States government has taken a step towards this with the Energy Act of 2005, an act to use new technologies and practices to reduce greenhouse gases. Furthermore, nations are realizing their dependence on fossil fuels with supplies decreasing. Alternative fuels can play a vital role in stopping global warming. It has become apparent that stopping the emissions of greenhouse gases is an effort that requires all of nations to contribute.

The first step is providing consumers with information about global warming. No other planets known has bared life. This planet is a special gem in a vast infinite ocean which should be treasured and loved. With the support of the every nations and a continued stride toward the conservation of our planet, Earth, will allow future generation to enjoy what this planet has given us.