Design has not been thoroughly institutionalized. Design may be claimed as art, or, as Ettore Sottsass (Italy, b. 1917), a designer of great influence, has said: 'To me design...is a way of discussing life. It is a way of discussing society, politics, eroticism, food and even design. At the end, it is a way of building up a possible figurative utopia or metaphor about life.' I have always had a penchant for art and certainly want to work conscientiously to further develop my skills in the subject. I want to pursue undergraduate study in visual arts, majoring in the Graphic Design course, particularly in the Pratt Institute, School of Design, in New York City.

It is true that the roots of contemporary graphic design are centuries old, taking us far back to the royal regalia, national flags, heraldry, tapestries and stained-glass windows of the Church, using symbols that uphold beliefs and stress authority. However, since the 1940's, graphic design has expanded. Its products have transformed drastically the psychological and creative life of people. The superiority and rise of technique in media has made graphic design a prevailing sway. I would like to contribute to society by communicating ideologies through my visualizations. Even a person in the street has become an expert at handling visual metaphors and graphic puns through the media of communications, newsprint, magazines and advertising.

What appeals to me about the Graphic Design course offered at Pratt, is the huge range of flexibility to suit my interests. It would help me to pursue my career aspirations in this field, and emerge as an artist, and perhaps follow the lead given by great creative masters, allowing me the freedom to choose my courses in such a way that they are largely useful to my achievement in my selected field of graphic design.

As in E. M. Forster's 'Howards End', I too agree with Margaret's reason for building the "Rainbow Bridge", as she tried to connect the two worlds- the inner world of sensation and emotion, with the outer world of material conditions and pragmatic values. As the youth of the modern day are aware of the giant effects of industrialisation and know exactly how much influence the media can create, it is not possible to forgo the advancements and new range of ideas which are brought with it. Other than the commercial value which definitely seeps into the various vehicles of media and communications, whether it is a logo, an ad-film or a book report, ideologies are upheld and beliefs brought out, giving each individual a chance to identify him or her self with something that he or she believes in.