It's always fun to go to the theater and check out the newest movies, or even head out to the local rental store for a new, interesting movie or an all time favorite. For me, it's different; I'm actually not your average movie fanatic. I actually dislike most movies. To me they all seem to have shallow plot lines, minimal character development, and a distasteful ending most of the time. So it is not usual at all for me to recommend a movie; in fact it's rather rare, but there are movies that I do enjoy and will recommend to another individual. Road to Perdition is one of those few. Tom Hanks, the starring role in this film, is one the actors I don't like at all, though I will admit he did do a good job in this film. Tom Hanks' face is kept half-shadowed by the brim of his fedora, and he is a silent and benign deity of knowledge and wisdom (New York Times.) I'm not one to criticize actors and acting. I honestly can't tell a good actor from a bad one, except if the script is horribly amiss. Some aspects of a movie that I do pay attention to are whether or not it's an action flick, certain themes in the movie, and the setting of the movie.

This movie is not well known for being an action flick. That makes it even more surprising for me to actually like it, and recommend it to someone. Taking place in the early 1930s, Road to Perdition is an early mob/mafia movie. It has got its fair share of bloodshed along with intense moments that seemingly pull you off the edge of your seat. Jude Law plays Maguire, a hired hit man sent to eliminate Michael Sullivan (Tom Hanks) and his son, Michael Jr. (Tyler Hoechlin.) At one point in the movie, Michael and Maguire are talking in a friendly with each other at a diner. Maguire pulls out a camera and loads the film in it. Michael begins to ask, "Is that uh, your profession? Or pleasure?" Maguire finishes loading the film in the camera, while explaining that he does it for both business and pleasure. He places the camera on the table facing directly towards Michael. Maguire then inquires, "Yourself?" to ask what Michael does for a living. Michael makes a hasty lie that he machines parts for a living. Michael proceeds to question Maguire further as to what his profession is. "I'm press..." Maguire says. "I'm somewhat of a rarity. I shoot the dead!" This is when Michael begins to sweat. He now knows he is face to face with a man set out to kill him. Maguire is a photographer that takes pictures of dead people, and now his camera is facing Michael. Michael then bluffs that the food doesn't agree with him and heads to the bathroom. Once inside he jumps out the window, slashes the tires on Maguire's car, then finally make a break for it driving off into the night. (The Road to Perdition) - I wondered if he just left his son there, then realized that the son wasn't in the scene. You might want to make this clearer, or just not mention the son at this point.

Within this movie there is plenty of death. Being a movie about a conflict between mob members, it is hit men killing hit men. Along with this constant killing the director plays with the mood to soften the intensity of having someone just die either on screen or off screen. That mood softener is water. "He creates a limbo of darkness, shadow, night, fearful faces half-seen, cold and snow," expertly states Roger Ebert. This movie does contain a feel of dark times and a constant foreboding of death. The second theme many fathers can relate to is the ties between father and son. "It's a natural law," Kenneth Turan, movie reviewer for the Los Angeles Times, highlights. "Sons are put on this earth to trouble their fathers." Whether it is a relationship between biological or surrogate, Michael Sr. was taken in by John Rooney (Paul Newman) a mobster kingpin and close associate to Al Capone. Rooney keeps Michael under his wing and teaches his ways and life style to Michael. This comes to an abrupt end when Michael Jr. hides and is found when Michael Sr. is on the job during a bloody murder. This then causes a rift between Rooney and Michael Sr. leaving a lack of trust. Michael and his son are forced to flee for their lives because of Michael Jr. having knowledge of what his dad does for a living.

Road to Perdition takes place during the early 1930s, a time in American history that I find fascinating. Now I know this is more of a personal thing to enjoy the scenes of the 1930s. This is something unique I believe, even to me. My interests are usually Medieval Europe or Feudal Japan, also mixed together with magic and fantasy. - This part does not belong here; it takes you off track.

The 1930s were a much simpler time. There was not all this technology to complicate things. There wasn't any internet, video games, or, dare I say it, television. People were happy with gas prices and accepted the wages they got from their work, except when Black Thursday hit with the stock market crash in 1929. In the few following years after that catastrophic event money was scarce. So Michael Sr. and Jr. made an even harsher impact to the mob when they took their exploits and robbed various banks in the country. - "they took their exploits"? Not sure who all the "they"s are in this phrase, or really what it means.

Even though I appreciate those times, you wouldn't catch me dead wearing the clothes they wore during that time; striped suits, fedoras, and those gaudy shoes, but hey added points to the Tommy Guns those were pretty awesome guns. - Your casual style is getting a little overdone here.

Even though Road to Perdition is the title it pretty much explains the final outcome of the movie, at least for those that know the definition of perdition. The story on getting there is a grasping drama that pulls you in, even if you're not a movie lover. This movie is an excellent adaptation towards the bonds of father and son and homage to a Shakespearian Tragedy. Road to Perdition won an Academy Award for Best Cinematography as well as 17 other awards and 47 nominations. So it goes without me saying, "This is a movie you must watch!" You wouldn't be disappointed if you went out to Blockbuster and rented this movie to watch on a boring Thursday night.