Throughout the novel, the theme of courage is portrayed in different characters. Step by step, Harper Lee showed us different types of courage, bringing Maycomb life closer to us.

In a society where men are stereotyped to be brave, these men are expected to show physical courage. Mr. Nathan Radley's shooting at 'niggers', Mr. Avery's risking his life to save Miss Maudie's furniture in the fire and Atticus's shooting the mad dog are just a few instances in which the courage that Maycomb thinks highly of. Even a little child like Scout was aware of this preconception. Only until after Atticus's marksmanship was revealed did Scout stop doubting his manliness and ability as he did not "do anything that could possibly arouse the admiration of anyone." In Maycomb, the image of a man with a shot-gun in his hand, ready to fight has been rooted as the ideal symbol of courage for every single man.

While the Southern tradition values physical courage, Harper Lee seems to be suggesting that it is moral courage that deserves to be valued. The relationship of Finch family with Mrs. Dubose is the first instance in the book to show us true meaning of moral courage. Mrs. Dubose was an ill, harsh lady, who annoyed the children by insulting Atticus and his defending a Negro. Scout herself was so scared of Mrs. Dubose that she thought her father was the bravest man in the world as he dared to speak to her. After Jem beheaded Mrs. Dubose's camellia due to an outbreak of anger, he was forced to go and read for her. He and Scout were both scared of her dark creepy house, but both of them went to her house everyday after school to fulfil task. The children were extremely brave, especially little Scout. For Jem, it was a duty, but for Scout, to go to Mrs. Dubose's house was a choice of will, and she decided to accompany Jem anyway. Hence, moral courage is portrayed from the children's responsible act.

Mrs. Dubose herself was a woman of strong will and moral courage. Morphine had been her pain-killer. She could choose to take a less painful death, but she was determined to "leave this world beholden to nothing and nobody". She meant to break her morphine addiction before passing away, and she succeeded over herself. She died beholden to nothing and nobody. Mrs. Dubose showed us what real courage is, not a man with a gun in his hand, but an ill woman overcoming all her weaknesses, she was the bravest person in Atticus's point of view.

Through out the whole book, Atticus appears to be the role model with moral courage. Given the case of Tom Robinson, Atticus meant to defend him, despite the disapproval of Maycomb County. Atticus had been insulted as "nigger-lover" by lots of people like Francis and Mrs. Dubose; even his sister, Aunt Alexandra had never approved of his choice; but that had never stirred his determination. Atticus knew from the beginning that this war he had to fight against all the White community. He understood that winning the case would be impossible, for it was an open and shut case- when it is between a white man and a black man, the white man would never lose. Despite all that, he went on, determined to protect Tom Robinson, to follow his personal principles.

Before the trial, Atticus went through numerous confrontations. He had to stand up against his friends like Heck Tate, and faced dissuasion from lots of his neighbours, but he stood firmly on his ground, unwavering of his decision. The night before the trial, Atticus even went to the jailhouse unarmed to personally guard Tom Robinson from the white mob; he risked himself as his family through so much danger that Mr. Underwood, a man, unsupportive of Atticus's defence for Tom Robinson, decided to protect him with a shotgun. Atticus was not obligated by law to protect his client, but he took on the responsibility so that his client could be judged in court, not by physical action, the kind of courage that Maycomb took as priority. Atticus put himself in danger's way to let the truth be told. Moral courage is Atticus's best asset, making him the most respectable keeper of justice in Maycomb.

Mr. Underwood is also featured as a man with both physical and moral courage. He was prepared with his shotgun to protect Atticus in the confrontation in front of the jail house, even though he did not have anything to do with the case. While he appeared as a good friend, always ready to protect his friend before the trial, after the death of Tom Robinson, his personality was shown clearly to everyone. He condemned Tom Robinson's death on The Maycomb Tribune, paying no attention to the fact that he might lose all his advertisement clients. He pointed out that killing Tom was senseless slaughter. It was made clear in his editorial that no matter how hard Atticus tried to defend Tom Robinson, he would never be able to bring justice to his clients, for it simply was a case between a white and a black, in which the black had no way to escape from the accusation. Showing all his opinions to the public might upset his subscribers and reduce his income, but Mr. Underwood could not have cared less. He was deeply frustrated about the unfair and tragic, yet expected end of the case; and he dared to bring his views to the public. In this case, with his genuine words, Mr. Underwood was a courageous gentleman in Maycomb society.

The most fascinating character in the novel, Boo Radley surprised us at the end of the novel with his bravery. Bob Ewell, mean and evil as ever, planned to attack the Finch children in the middle of the night. When Bob Ewell got Jem, and was about to harm Scout, out of the blue, Boo Radley appeared and stabbed Bob Ewell with a kitchen knife, stopping him from getting the children. This action appears to be physical courage, as Boo used his strength to defeat Bob Ewell; however deep beneath the surface of the matter, it was Boo's determination that was exceptional. Being locked up in his house for years, nothing could take him out of his house. He had always been attracted to the Finch children, he even gave them little presents in the oak tree, aside from the time he wrapped a blanket around Scout's shoulder when Miss Maudie's house was on fire, he had never gone out of his house; the reasons being probably he was a timid person, detached from the society for so long that he did not want to come out. The second reason was his frail health- he was very sick; even after he defeated Ewell, Scout realised that he was coughing very badly. However, this time, Boo was so concerned about the children's safety that he risked himself getting out of the house, making a public appearance to rescue them. Is it not true that his moral courage outshines his physical ability?

Throughout the novel, Harper Lee suggested that moral courage is the ideal trait to be valued. True enough, moral courage has been a significant help to cure the hell that people give each other in Maycomb society. In the case of Tom Robinson, it was as clear as daylight for Atticus that there was no way he could win the trial for Tom, but his moral courage was the only hope for Tom and the Black society for the truth to be told and for justice. Atticus suffered personally beyond worrying for his children's emotional and moral development or being spat on by Bob Ewell, which even Aunt Alexandra could realise: "He doesn't show much, but it tears him down into pieces". With his moral courage, in making the justice think about the case, Atticus managed to fight for his personal principle of justice. He did not win, as expected; Tom Robinson had to sacrifice his life for no reason. However, in truth, Atticus won this trial the moment he made the jury consider whether Tom was really guilty. On the surface, he lost the trial, but the truth is, Atticus brought Maycomb a "baby-step" closer to being a fair and humane society. Atticus could do what many people in Maycomb longed for, yet dared not to raise their voice against the prejudiced norms of the county. With his moral courage, Atticus had set the base for a better world, where there is no place for discrimination. He had received victory.

Boo Radley's action to protect the children at the end of the book was an extraordinary heroic act. With his moral courage, he overcome his difficulties and worries to step out of his comfort zone to rescue the kids from danger. By attacking Bob Ewell, Boo Radley put an end to the series of evil deeds done by this deceitful man. In a way, this act of moral courage did bring justice back to its place, where by a person has to pay a high price for his mistakes. Even though it is rough justice in this case, when the truth is told not in the court but in the dark, creepy park in the middle of the night, and the children had to suffer emotional trauma after being attacked, justice is still done. Hence, in my opinion, Boo Radley's moral courage puts everything in its place, driving the evils away, bringing back peace and justice to Maycomb people.

In conclusion, featured throughout the novel were physical and moral courage, but moral courage plays a more significant role in curing the disease within each prejudiced person in Maycomb. Moral courage is not something than can be seen as obvious like physical courage, whereby a man with a gun in his hand is ready to fight. Moral courage is "when you know you're licked before you begin but you begin anyway and you see it through no matter what. You rarely win, but sometimes you do."