The provision of support for the student by all members of staff together with the encouragement of further support from fellow students is critical for the healing process of the child. Further assistance by external sources such as a clergy or doctor may be appropriate to talk to the class and the bereaved children to help them understand. For the child, returning to school can be a difficult time as they have to face their classmates again and may be worried what others know or will say. The teacher should talk to the class about the situation before the child returns, to explain the situation and as the teacher it's important to note that honesty is the best policy and to talk to them in the language and terms that they understand. (The bereaved child's feelings make take precedence and there is no quick way to overcome these feelings.) By maintaining the usual rules and routine in the classroom will help reassure the child in this period of upheaval. After major loss, the first year can contain major periods of intense grief and emotion which may reappear especially on anniversaries and birthdays and peers and classmates need to be sensitive around these particular times. Before talking to the child, the teacher must communicate with the parents to elicit what information regarding the death and burial has been given to the child to ensure the same information is being given and not confusing or upsetting the child. It may be useful for the parents to give a simple explanation to the child so they can answer best when questioned by their classmates as they can be hurt with other children's insensitive remarks. It's important to liaise with the parents regularly regarding the child's welfare and to establish the ? In class, the child may ask questions regarding the death and its best to answer them truthfully and directly. Clear explanations help the pupil adjust as explanations that are inappropriate or misled will only increase the child's fears and anxieties. The child shouldn't feel isolated or singled out in the classroom and that the grief can come in waves with some days being better than others even months after the death. Their concentration levels may be affected trying to cope with the recent upheavals and coping to come to terms with the loss which may result in regressive behaviour. They may also find learning and retaining information difficult as well as exploring in detail themes in subject areas such as Reading or History. It depends on the child as different children may have built up anger and frustration following the death.