What is the career that most appeals to you? Most people have considered some type of career earlier in life, but I on the other hand did not really have a good idea of what I would do for the rest of my life. In fact I had chosen law and security administration near the end of high school. There will be many future job openings in this career; therefore, I believe that a career in law and security administration would best suit me. I chose this because I will be able to make changes to the local community, because of the influence of friends and family, and of personal and financial rewards.

A career in law and security administration gives me the opportunity to change the local community for the better. First of all, working in this profession will let me apply my already high moral standards, beliefs, and principles for the betterment of society. Such as the goodness, equality, freedom, truth, and justice principles which are deserved by everyone in treatment. Secondly, I as an agent of the law will be able to serve and protect the people. Decreasing crime with the help of the public will result in a lower percentage of fear and a feeling of a safer environment. Lastly, the public will see me as a role model, and I will take pride and honour in knowing this fact. There is nothing better than knowing you changed society's view and trust toward law enforcement officials.

My friends and family were an enormous impact on one of my biggest decisions in life. Firstly, I had heard stories from my mother of how my family back home, mainly my aunts and uncles, that are all high ranked cops or in the military. This made me wonder if I should consider pursuing a career in one of those due to genetics. Secondly, I would not have chosen to enter law enforcement if it was not for a friend who advised me to do so. After much conscious debate on my decision towards entering law enforcement, my friend's advice was the last reason I needed to choose to enter law and security administration. Lastly, during high school, another friend of mine was leaving to join the army. This both surprised and inspired me. In my opinion he did not seem like someone who would fit in the military, yet there he was wearing the uniform and backpack and ready to go. This changed my opinion on a lot of things and made me reconsider my future plans.

The most significant reasons that tempted me into considering law and security administration were the rewards offered by the profession. Firstly, things like character traits, physical fitness, self-respect, self discipline, and courageousness really motivated me into wanting to join. I really wanted to have all these qualities, who wouldn't? Secondly, I looked at things I would need in life out of a job. The salaries and job security in law enforcement intrigued me. In fact, it was more than I was looking for. Also, the experience and desire to succeed was something the job could give me. I viewed this as important. I believed that all people need goals in life, it is a social need. Lastly, this career offered me better retirement in life. I viewed this reward as most important, for this is the last reward that I will acquire from my future career.

There have been many reasons in my life that influenced me to choose this route. The urge to change things, family tradition, and the desire for personal and financial rewards were the main reasons for my final decision. I have no regrets in my decision; I see my future as only getting better with many more important decisions to make and experiences to go through during the remainder of my life.