To An Athlete Dying Young, is a traditional poem that occurs during the 19th century in a pastoral setting in England, from the point of view of a young yeoman. Housman created a poem that consists of a four lined balled with seven stanzas. (Could you help me fix this up) The form of poetry is known as a couplet, an alternating rhyme scheme abab: "The time you won the town the race/We chaired you through the marketplace: Man and boy stood cheering by/And home we bought you shoulder high (Housman 1-4). The triumphant procession of the athlete's moment of glory is contrasted with his funeral procession: "To-day, the road all runners come / Shoulder-high we bring youhome, / And set you at your threshold down, / Townsman of a stiller town" (Housman 4-8). This was an example of an iambic tetrameter, having four feet that each consists of an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable. Some lines are in trochaic tetrameter with catalexis at the end. Lines 13 and 14 are examples of trochaic tetrameter with catalexis: "Eyes the shady night has shut/ Cannot see the record cut" (Housman 13-14). ( Should i say something here) Over all is the paragraph good?

Housman formed a dimensional poem that combined sophisticated language with colloquial British diction, as demonstrated by the usage of the word "lad", which is a common term that connotes youth: "Smart Lad, to slip betimes away/ From fields where glory does not stay (Housman 9-10). This has a melodic sound; it is lyrical and poignant like the youth it describes. It denotes the runner is considered fortunate that he passed away in the height of his profession, considering fame isn't eternal. He would eventually have to cope with the sorrow of viewing his records being beaten, as well as him losing the ability to be a great runner. (Could you please help me write a concluding sentence that summarizes the rhyme scheme, meter, diction, etc).

Houseman uses several rhetorical devices in regards to making his poem obtain artistic and realistic value.(Could you help me reword this?)Housman's use of metaphoric language such as "roses" and "garland" hint at the brevity and fragility of life. Like the beautiful flowers, which bloom only for a short time, then die and decay, the young runner's bloom is short-lived and sweet: "And from early though the laurel grows/It withers quicker than the rose" (Housman 13-14). Housman speaks of death using a poetic method, making death seem rather peaceful: Eyes the shady night has shut/Cannot see the record cut/And silence sounds no worse than cheers/After earth has stopped the ears (Housman 16-20). This has a harsher sound, with choppier consonants, more appropriate for the finality of death. It implies the young runner will not have to witness his fame gradually end, since he died victorious. Housman's use of imagery, exemplified by "Eyes the shady night has shut," provides the poem with artistic value. Houseman's imaginative wording brings beauty to death, diminishing its fearsome qualities.

Housman uses a metaphor to creatively express the imagery of the runner's youth. He compares him to the laurel, a European evergreen tree, used in ancient Greece to crown victorious Olympic athletes: And early though the laurel grows/It withers quicker than the rose" (Housman 11-12). The laurel, which represents the glory of youth, is like a flame, which, though it burns brighter than an ember, also burns out faster. The laurel grows "early," meaning it attains its peak young, but cannot maintain this level of perfection for long.

By intertwining the themes of youth and death, the author explores the fleeting nature of life and the cruel irony of death's ability to take life, while giving back eternal glory. The topic of youth is prominent in "To An Athlete Dying Young," since it focuses on the life of a young runner who dies before his time. Housman uses a metaphor to creatively express the imagery of the runner's youth. He compares him to the laurel, a European evergreen tree, used in ancient Greece to crown victorious Olympic athletes: And early though the laurel grows/It withers quicker than the rose" (Housman 11-12). The laurel, which represents the glory of youth, is like a flame, which, though it burns brighter than an ember, also burns out faster. The laurel grows "early," meaning it attains its peak young, but cannot maintain this level of perfection for long.

The topic of premature death is depicted as being justifiable, since the fate of the athlete who lives beyond his prime, Housman contemplates, is the fear of outliving one's glory or having "the name" die "before the man." In the sixth stanza it basically states that through death, one can be able to obtain their legacy, while if they were to live it would be easier for them to be forgotten: "So set, before its echoes fade, / The fleet foot on the sill of shade/And hold to the low lintel up/The still-defended challenge-cup." (Housman 24-28). In the "sill of shade," that world beyond this one, the young runner will still sustain his speed and his athletic ability. Even in death, he is the defender of the "challenge-cup" and eternally the people's champion.

The emotional effect of the poem, To an Athlete Dying Young, is found in the voice of its speaker, who, although not identified as such, could be interpreted as the personification of Death itself. Death's point of view, implies an ironic tone, suggesting death is not the fall of a man, yet the end of mortality. The speaker proposes the purpose of life is to achieve greatness. Through greatness one must die to be remembered as a legend. Death speaks of the runners as a champion, but justifies that in life, victors fade and become meaningless in the eyes of the masses. He saved the runner from humiliation, since he was bound to see his records being beaten, resulting in him being forgotten. By taking the young athlete's life, Death allows him to be a champion forever: Now you will not swell the rout/Of lads that wore their honors out (17-18). The athlete who died young will not be among those who outlived their own fame. The poem allows Death to turn what might be seen as gory into everlasting glory.

The purpose of the poem is to soften the blow of an early death by finding the positive aspects of it. It elicits feelings of hope and sorrow, a sort of poignant optimism. "It was based on a period of time when artists became concerned with the dimensions that were not present in day-to-day lives. They were concerned with sensitivity, sentimentality, and the feeling side of things." ( Could you help me put this in my own words) This relates to Housman's curiosity regarding in the way youth is so quickly faded, premature death, and the importance of living for the day. The latter refers to Horace in a classic poem named: Carpe Diem. (should i explain who carpe diem is?)

The Dying Youth's Divine Reply, written by Paramahansa Yogananda, also shares a similar purpose to, To an Athlete Dying Young. It's about a young man who awaits death, who has no qualms regarding him dying, since he obtains a strong faith that his death will bring him closer to God. Both poems depict a special understanding that premature death is simply justifiable if it allows one's soul to inhabit peace, rather than suffering. To appreciate life, one must be able to understand the beauty death obtains. Death is not a subject of evil, but it's a matter of bringing on closer to their spiritual beliefs, and to their legacy. Does this make sense? Does this explain the meaning of the poem, and the emotion affect it had on me?

Lastly, the novel "The Great Gatsby" written by F. Scott Fitzgerald is evident to the theme that is being manifested in "To An Athlete Dying Young". Both the story and poem obtain themes that are both relevant to the subject death. In reference to the novel, the story is based on a man named Gatsby who tries to transform his dreams into reality, but dies before he has the opportunity to do so. The concept Houseman was demonstrating in "To An Athlete Dying Young," relates to the overall idea suggested in "The Great Gatsby." The young runner in "To An Athlete Dying Young," basically dies before his time, which is justifiable to Housman, since if he were to live, his legacy would end up vanishing away, whereas in death his achievements won't be neglected later on by society. This is connected to Gatsby's death, since he dies before living his dreams, but his death is justifiable as well because Gatsby would never have the opportunity to execute his dreams, since in sense they were unrealistic. Rather than him living and being aware that he could never live the life he acquires, death (afterlife) is his only option for complete fulfillment. Both the young runner and Gatsby died at a time, which will allow others to see them as conscious figures who lived to achieve their goals. If Housman were to discuss Gatsby's death in light of his own poem, he would've probably made it clear that his death was his only option for happiness.

The poem looks at the devastation of life, while the story examines the devastation of dreams. Gatsby lost himself to his wicked dreams, for Housman would acknowledge this for he obviously believes death should be appreciated, rather then feared. He would have used Gatsby's situation, as prime evidence to why death can sometimes set an individual free from imprisonment, due to particular events in life keeping them hostage.

Dying young is considered by most to be one of the most tragic of fates. Yet, in Housman's mournful poem, To an Athlete Dying Young, a premature death is viewed in a positive light. It focuses on an admired, young runner who dies a champion. Housman shines light on the youthful athlete's death, by comparing the tragedy of his passing to the glory of his death. The major themes in the poem, death and youth, stem from the usage of metaphoric language, imagery, sophisticated literature, and rhyme. The speaker of the poem, who views the young runner's death as righteous, contributes to the purpose and the overall effect of the poem, which is compared to Paramahansa Yogananda's poem, The Dying Youth's Divine Reply. F. Scott Fitzgerald also depicts the subject of death in the novel, The Great Gatsby. Fitzgerald perception and Housman's insight of death will be compared, as well as the notion of dreams. Housman portrayed death as an alterative for the young athlete to achieve fame, and legacy. It shows that without death, life would have no meaning, "for death begins with life's first breath. And life begins at touch of death."