"The cynic is one who never sees a good quality in a man and never fails to see a bad one. He is the human owl, vigilant in darkness and blind to light ... The cynic puts all human actions into two classes - openly bad and secretly bad." (Henry Ward Beecher) My personality could probably best be described as quirkily cynical. I can't say I'm quite as misanthropic as Beecher describes, but I do have numerous traits (read: quirks) that would give the appearance of overflowing cynicism.

Recently, one of my assignments was to have others describe my personality. My list had a little of everything, including overt sarcasm ("Really? I never noticed."), my tendency to argue about most anything ("What? I strenuously object!"), a complete lack of tact, and my ever present smile (which another student noted was more of a smirk). A few even had the audacity to state that I am a *softie* at heart (the worst insult possible to a masculine ego). I really can't deny any of these, since they are all integral parts of my persona (with the obvious exception of being a softie). Myself, I prefer to think that they are the result of scientifically inclined thinking combined with near-omnipotent wit. What is sarcasm but witty reply to an unnecessary statement? Playing devil's advocate ensures that I have a healthy supply of arguments (the battles of the mind). And my smirk... well, um... ah... let's just ignore all that and just say that I have a scientific mind.

I've always had an affinity towards science, especially biology. I've found that both my propensity for argument and cynical disposition are assets in a field where theories are always tentative and subject to change. These qualities helped me advance to District on all three of the Science Fair experiments I have conducted. Something about biology (I still haven't found exactly what) especially called to me, and I signed up for AP Bio at the earliest possible chance. Our teacher, Dr. Baker, had worked for several years as a nano-biologist and was determined to show us the technological side of the subject. I thoroughly enjoyed many of the experiments we conducted, and decided to explore the field of Biomedical Engineering since it appealed to many of my interests, combining biology with technology.

At this point, most of my goals are subject to change on a daily basis (other than desire to enter college, of course). My subconscious is also maintaining some vague images of great discoveries and breakthroughs (my dad continues to pressure me into developing a cure for cancer). Aside from the intrinsic aspirations of overwhelming success, eternal happiness, etc., one of my primary objectives is simply to enjoy life. This basic revelation was influenced by one of the last speeches of our school play, You Can't Take it With You (my latest acting adventure): "You've got all the money you need. You can't take it with you. ... Where does the fun come in? Don't you think there ought to be something more, Mr. Kirby? You must have wanted more than that when you started out. We haven't got too much time, you know - any of us." After all (yeah, I really like quotes), "There is only one success - to be able to spend your life in your own way."